Earlier, you learned that
OS hardening focuses
on device safety and
uses patch updates,
secure configuration, and
account access policies.
Now we'll focus on
network hardening.
Network hardening focuses
on network-related
security hardening,
like port filtering,
network access privileges,
and encryption over networks.
Certain network hardening
tasks are performed regularly,
while others are performed
once and then updated as needed.
Some tasks that are regularly
performed are firewall
rules maintenance,
network log analysis, patch
updates, and server backups.
Earlier, you learned that
a log is a record of
events that occurs within
an organization's systems.
Network log analysis
is the process of
examining network logs to
identify events of interest.
Security teams use
a log analyzer tool
or a security information
and event management tool,
also known as a SIEM,
to conduct network log analysis.
A SIEM tool is an application
that collects and analyzes
log data to monitor
critical activities
in an organization.
It gathers security
data from a network and
presents that data on
a single dashboard.
The dashboard
interface is sometimes
called a single pane of glass.
A SIEM helps analysts
to inspect, analyze,
and react to security events
across the network based
on their priority.
Reports from the SIEM
provide a list of
new or ongoing network
vulnerabilities
and list them on a scale
of priority from high to
low, where high priority
vulnerabilities
have a much shorter
deadline for mitigation.
Now that we've covered tasks
that are performed regularly,
let's examine tasks that
are performed once.
These tasks include port
filtering on firewalls,
network access privileges, and
encryption for communication,
among many things.
Let's start with port filtering.
Port filtering can be
formed over the network.
Port filtering is a firewall
function that blocks or
allows certain port numbers
to limit unwanted communication.
A basic principle is that
the only ports that are
needed are the ones
that are allowed.
Any port that isn't
being used by
the normal network operations
should be disallowed.
This protects against
port vulnerabilities.
Networks should be set up with
the most up-to-date
wireless protocols
available and
older wireless protocols
should be disabled.
Security analysts also use
network segmentation to create
isolated subnets for
different departments
in an organization.
For example, they
might make one for
the marketing department and
one for the finance department.
This is done so the issues in
each subnet don't spread
across the whole company and
only specified users
are given access to
the part of the network that
they require for their role.
Network segmentation
may also be used
to separate different
security zones.
Any restricted zone on
a network containing
highly classified or
confidential data
should be separate from
the rest of the network.
Lastly, all network
communication should be
encrypted using the latest
encryption standards.
Encryption standards are
rules or methods used to
conceal outgoing data and
uncover or decrypt
incoming data.
Data in restricted zones should
have much higher
encryption standards,
which makes them more
difficult to access.
You've learned about the most
common hardening practices.
This knowledge will be
useful as you complete
the certificate program and it's
essential to your career
as a security analyst.